# Ceasar
I tried to program the ceasar encryption method with Dart

When thinking about the problem it was obvious to me that the string handaling was a big part to find the solution.
Before starting I search how ceasar algorithm works, for the encryption it only add the key then make sure the new result is in the bounderies of the alphabet therefore we use modulo 26. To Decrypt the cypher you need to substract the key and like encrypting we use modulo 26 so it stays aphabetically correct.
After knowing the formula for ceasar encryption the rest seems just a way of handaling string and transform it from a string to number we can add to a key or substract it. Then we need a way to interpret those numbers back to text form, after search i found two methods one called fromCharCode and codeUnitAt.
In simple words codeUnitAt gives you the ascii code of the letter, inversely fromCharCode take the ascii code and turn it into the letter coresponding, a little detail I discovered later on, those two methodes use UTF-16 encoding which is ascii but with a lot more characters addded.


The inputUse function has the job of taking the text and turning it back to a series of numbers, those numbers are stored in a table (list) and retrun by the function to be used later.


the outputUse function take the table generated by the inputUse function and turn it into symboles or letters and return it in a form of string.


the encryption functions simply encrypt the message by using inputUse to convert the characters to digital code, then adds the key to those numbers generated, you are probably wondering why it is modulo 60 000 instead of 26, that's is because the UTF-16 encryption has a number of charachters of 60 000, so here instead of using only the 26 letters of the alphabet to encrypt we have not the choice of 60 000 keys to use. Then the list is passed as an argument in the outputUse  function and transfromed into a text which is then returned as a string from the function.


similarly to encrypting decrypting works the same except for instead of adding the key, we subtract it, the other steps are compeletely the same.

During my work in this project I learned most importantly how to handle strings, even tho it is a working solution however it is far from perfect, and improving it is a must, which i will try to do, some of the things i can improve is complexity, handaling bigger string, and maybe even adding an interface to it.